Title : 
Ram chants at Netaji event: TMC questions PM's silence


Link :
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ram-chants-at-netaji-event-tmc-questions-pms-silence/articleshow/80440656.cms


Date and time: 
Jan 25, 2021, 07:44  IST


Paragraph: 
KOLKATA: Taking exception to PM Modi’s “silence” on Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee being greeted with chants of “Jai Shri
Ram” at Saturday’s official Netaji birth anniversary event in Kolkata, Trinamool Congress on Sunday termed the conduct of a
section of the audience “misogynistic” and an affront to what Subhas Chandra Bose stood for. “PM Modi did not utter a single
word to condemn the behaviour of a section of the audience...This shows BJP has no respect for Netaji and has no idea of what he
stood for,” minister Bratya Basu said. He accused BJP of trying to promote “a certain concept of Lord Ram” in Bengal.
“Bengal’s concept of Ram, which we have grown up with, entails respect for women. Those who used Sri Ram’s name in their
slogans at Victoria (Memorial) neither respect Ram nor women.” Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee said, “Mamata Banerjee is a CM
elected by 2.5 crore people in Bengal. By not allowing her to speak, she was insulted.” Mamata had been invited to speak at the
event in Victoria Memorial ahead of the PM, but she returned to her seat the moment some in the crowd uttered “Jai Shri Ram”.
Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “This wasn’t a political programme. This was a government programme. Their
understanding of what should be said where, is slightly less.” Many among the bevy of celebrities who attended the event,
including some who have been critical of TMC, said they loved everything about the event other than the row over “Jai Shri
Ram”. Responding to the outrage, BJP demanded to know if Mamata’s refusal to speak at the event amid chants of “Jai Shri
Ram” was a political stance or not. Netaji’s grandnephew Chandra Kumar Bose, who had contested the South Kolkata Lok Sabha
seat on a BJP ticket, criticised the CM over her reaction to the chant.


