Title : 
Congress, AIUDF will open floodgates for infiltrators: Amit Shah


Link :
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-aiudf-will-open-floodgates-for-infiltrators-amit-shah/articleshow/80440620.cms


Date and time: 
Jan 25, 2021, 03:37  IST


Paragraph: 
NALBARI/KOKRAJHAR: Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday launched BJP’s Assam campaign, promising that the party would “expose”
Congress’ secular credentials and highlighted the latter’s alliance with Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF. Addressing a rally in
BJP’s stronghold of Nalbari in lower Assam, Shah sought another five years after the party formed a government for the first
time in 2016 to continue the pace of development and keep the state safe from "violence, corruption, agitations and also
floods”, a major bane for the state. Shah said while BJP has managed to contain infiltrators, Congress and AIUDF would open the
floodgates for them. The minister cited Congress’s alliances with the Muslim League in Kerala and Ajmal in Assam and said the
opposition party should stop shedding crocodile tears in the guise of “secularism”. BJP has planned five big rallies before
assembly poll dates are announced. “Can Congress and Ajmal keep Assam free from infiltrators? If they come to power, they will
open all gates to welcome them because they are their vote bank,” Shah said and took swipe at Congress for dubbing BJP
“communal”. Shah also addressed the issue of extremism, saying PM Modi was on a mission to end militancy in the entire
northeast with the signing of the Bodo accord one year ago. “The PM started ending the unrest not only in Assam but the entire
northeast and it started with the Bodo peace agreement, followed by the Bru-Reang agreement. Today the era of violence is coming
to an end and the era of peace is beginning,” he said. He added that the PM had scrapped Articles 370 and 35A of the
Constitution from J&K and in the recent panchayat elections, police did not have to shoot a single bullet and peaceful polling
took place. He said an assistance of Rs 4 lakh had been started for all surrendered militants and work of honouring the Bodo
language was also being done and the long pending demand was fulfilled by according it the status of the state’s co-language.


